#In my data visualisation project, I am developing real-time movie rating and recommendation system. Real-time applications are those applications in which the state of the application is changing every time based on users’ interaction with it. This project has a real time database which contains 3 tables, one is for the details of the movie, the other is for the details of the users and the third one is about the ratings that the users give to the movies displayed to them with a mobile application that is developed in android using java. The server in the backend is developed in NodeJS, the movie posters is fetched from an online website “the movie dataset” via API. The data-set that we used for the movies is collected from Kaggle. The Kaggle dataset source is from “the movie database”. We are using Jupiter notebook to analyse the data that we are getting from the user input from our app.

#In this project, we have used an hybrid approach to get the recommended movies based on the movies the user is liking, the movies that the user had liked before and the similarity of the user with the other users in the platform. This hybrid method has been in use but in our project, we have used it in a unique way. This hybrid method that we will be talking about in the later part of the project is actually a mix of content based filtering and collaborative filtering.

#The major drawback of a collaborative based recommender is the lack of user information in the early stage of a product, we have taken care of that as well in our final product.
 We have used a multi-threaded approach to speed up the UI/UX of our produced app, so that the user does not face a lag when he/she is using the application swapping past the movies.
The UI/UX of the application is inspired from a famous dating application Tinder. In tinder the swipes are usually used to select or reject a person of other gender. But in this application, we will be recommending and showing movies and users can use swipes to rate the movies he/she has seen. These ratings will be taken care of in the NodeJS server and updated in the database. And based on the real-time likings if the user a new movie would appear in the screen of the user. The user can also see the movies he/she had rated before in the history option int the mobile application. We will be talking in more details about the architecture of the mobile application and its design details in Proposed Work.
We have built a server to handle all the functionalities of the user that he/she does in the front-end application. We will explain in details about the routes and how the routes are handles in the proposed work, but to brief it in the introduction.
